NOLAN T. FLEGEL							    	  	
	Developer and GIS Analyst

Summary
I am a methodical problem solver who embraces new challenges and opportunities.  

I am currently studying Software Systems Engineering and GIS. I have a focus on machine learning image analysis for application in wildlife management and environmental conservation. I value collaborative solutions that engage industry experts and stakeholders, working towards improving task safety, effectiveness and sustainable practices. 

Technical Skills
I am comfortable with a variety of technologies, programming languages, tools and practices.
Python, Java, Node.js, Javascript, HTML5, C++.
ArcGIS, Esri Dashboards, Jupyter Notebooks,Tensorflow, Keras, Pytorch
MS SQL, Redis, PostgreSQL, MongoDB
Git, Docker, AWS(EC2, IAM, S3), Kubernetes, CentOS 
Scrum and Agile, Jira, Trello

Professional Experience
Agriculture and Agri-Foods Canada					[May 2020 - Jan 2021]
[July 2019 - Sept 2019]
Geomatics Cloud Analyst - Student
Develop interactive dashboards for real-time updates and internal services.
Create workshop tutorials for creating maps using Open Data.
Create mobile applications and web dashboards for field researchers and staff to facilitate real-time reporting and status of field operations. 
Develop technical training documents on Esri’s ArcGIS Online for internal employees.
Assist the geomatics teams with research and data verification.

WBM Technologies								[Nov 2018 - Jun 2019]
Service Desk Analyst
Technical support for enterprise clients and their end users.
Collaborate with technical teams to manage incident detection, assess problems, troubleshoot and prioritize responses for business operations.

GasBuddy.com - Regina, SK						[Apr 2014 - Mar 2017]
IT Manager/Deskside Support
I ensure our office runs smoothly and our employees have the tools they need to succeed. This responsibility presents unique problem solving opportunities as I work to make our office operate efficiently. 

Network Improvements  
Design and implement a secure VPN solution to connect remote employees.
Improve office integration and communication between international offices by diagnosing network performance and installing new network infrastructure and services.

Server Infrastructure Upgrades 
Collaborated with engineering teams to promote professional development practices through the deployment of flexible virtual machines, new tools, and new services.
Design and deploy a scalable multi-node service for automated development.
Develop a process for routine server patching and monitor the health of the development environment.

Foster a New Collaborative Office Culture  
Review architectural blueprints, and complete on site inspections for the construction of the new office space. 
Select furniture and design workspaces to promote collaboration and productivity. 
Plan the move, prepare employees, and ensure a smooth office transition. 
Migrate to a new Windows domain.
Advocate for the migration to laptops to improve collaboration and flexibility in the workplace.
Design and install custom video conferencing systems for each of the five boardrooms. 


CRL Engineering - Regina, SK 						[Sept 2012 - Jan 2013]
Programmer/Hardware Technician
Manage the hardware rollout for the TransitLive project, including the assembly and installation of the GPS devices, and the touchscreen interface.  
Complete field tests on system performance and troubleshoot GPS devices.
Collect feedback from transit drivers to improve the touchscreen interface to provide relevant stop time data. 

Education
University of Regina - Regina, SK					   [Sept 2018 - Current]
Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science
3rd Year: B.Sc Software Systems Engineering/ Minor: Geographic Information Systems

Volunteer Experience
Regina Folk Festival - Regina, SK						[2017 - 2020]
The festival is a celebration of music and community, hosted annually in downtown Regina in Victoria Park. 

Help Portrait - Regina, SK							[2014 - 2020]
Help Portrait is a day where disadvantaged families can get free family portraits taken, professionally edited, and printed on-site. 

Computers for Schools - Regina, SK					[2003 - 2018]
Computers for Schools refurbishes donated computer and office equipment which are then distributed across Canada to schools, libraries, non-profit organizations and communities. 

Cathedral Village Arts Festival - Regina, SK				[2017 - 2018]
The Cathedral Village Arts Festival is a week-long celebration of local arts, crafts and culture. 

Personal Interests
Outdoor adventures, curling, cross country skiing, 3d printers, electronics, unmanned aerial vehicles, internet of things, cycling, disc golf and ultimate frisbee.
